hi I'm Mike Lee and welcome to India
Food Network
firstly I want to thank all the viewers
from all over the world for giving me
some fantastic feedback I am so glad
that you are watching my videos and
enjoying my recipes so today I am going
to do a very traditional recipe which is
the vegetable and mint Shahi biryani
now biryani is can be very daunting with
loads of ingredients and cooking
techniques but I assure you
though the ingredient list is quite big
it is very simple to make so to know
more about this recipe stay tuned to
India Food Network
so though the ingredient list is really
long the cooking technique is very
simple and I assure you that the biryani
will be ready in no time so let's see
what the ingredients are here I have two
cups of rice that have cooked it some
salted water and added some saffron to
it here I have half a cup of potatoes
that I fried about one and a half cups
of boiled vegetables like cauliflower
carrots peas french beans about half a
cup of fried onions some fried cashew
nuts soaked raisins one tomato which
I've chopped some fresh mint coriander 1
cup of yogurt 2 tablespoons of fresh
cream 2 tablespoons of grated cheese
quarter teaspoon of healthy or turmeric
1 TSP of red chili powder 2 teaspoons of
gana jeera powder about one to one and a
half teaspoons of biryani masala about
two teaspoons of ginger garlic which
I've chopped some salt to taste and two
tablespoons of oil so after all these
ingredients let's find out how to make
this quick biryani
so because the ingredient list is so
long what I do is I just plop all these
ingredients into one big bowl and
marinate the vegetables so first let's
get the vegetables in this bowl and now
I'm going to add the yogurt the fresh
cream the cheese
then the mint of course the most
important ingredient some nice freshly
chopped coriander which gives all the
freshness quarter teaspoon of healthy or
turmeric 1 teaspoon of chili powder 2
teaspoons of Danah jeera powder about 1
teaspoon to one and a half teaspoons of
biryani masala some salt to taste
and of course the tomatoes so now I'm
going to simply mix all these
ingredients so that they mix and blend
well now last add the potatoes because
we don't want them to get too soggy and
a bit of the onions maybe a tablespoon
or so okay so really there are two ways
of doing this very Ani you can just
layer these vegetables as is in a pot or
a pan that you are making your biryani
in and then just layer the rice over it
and let cook cover for about 30 to 40
minutes on a low flame so you don't have
to wait and watch and you can sip a wine
while your biryani is working just
remember to place a pan underneath the
cooking pot so that the heat distributes
evenly throughout so now I have
marinated the vegetables for a good 15
to 20 minutes so I'm just going to
sautee them now so just put it on medium
heat I'm going to add two tablespoons of
regular vegetable oil you can also add
ghee here or butter and once the oil
heats up I'm going to add the ginger and
the garlic just to remove the rawness
from that
just saute it for a couple of minutes
and now simply flop in all these
ingredients into the pan
so now I'm going to let these vegetables
cook for a good five to six minutes till
all the flavors blend in while I prepare
the rice for it so you now have some
salted cooked rice and in that I've put
some sacral so good tip here would be to
dissolve the saffron in some milk to
make it more rich and so that the color
and the flavor spreads evenly so here I
have the rice and to this I am going to
add some fried onions and just mix it
nicely and remember to flavor it with
some salt at this point in time
otherwise the biryani can get quite
bland so now my vegetables are almost
cooked here it doesn't take much time
because we already parboil our
vegetables before so now just spread it
evenly in a layer just reduce the
temperature to low and now I'm going to
simply layer the rice on top so it's got
all the goodness of vegetables you can
add ricotta cheese you can add some
chicken I mean whatever you like finally
I'm going to add some soaked raisins
so why we add it right now the rice
soaks in all the sweetness and gives it
a really rich and decadent taste later
on and the fried onion and now I'm going
to place a foil or any tight container
or something on top so now I have placed
this foil over the pan just make sure
that all the steam gets trapped so now
we are going to let this very Ani sit
for about 10 to 15 minutes on a very low
flame till the entire house is full of
the fantastic flavor so
after 15 minutes I'm just checking if
it's done oh wow
it looks fantastic in most divine the
final garnish would be to top some fried
cashews on top just to make it that
royal and Shahi and some really fresh
Lee chopped coriander
so my vegetable and mention biryani is
ready I hope you enjoyed watching this
video and I'm sure you're going to try
to make it do leave me suggestions and
comments and let me know if you've liked
it subscribe to India Food Network and
do not stop watching Bon Appetit with
Mythili
this is Mythili signing off until next
time bye
you